**The Mapillary Vistas Dataset for Semantic Understanding of Street Scenes v2.0** is a dataset for instance segmentation, semantic segmentation, and object detection tasks. It is used in the automotive industry. 

The dataset consists of 25000 images with 1872892 labeled objects belonging to 124 different classes including *sky*, *road*, *pole*, and other: *vegetation*, *car*, *building*, *static*, *street light*, *traffic sign (front)*, *curb*, *sidewalk*, *lane marking - straight line*, *lane marking - dashed line*, *fence*, *traffic sign (back)*, *signage - advertisement*, *traffic sign - direction (front)*, *utility pole*, *person*, *terrain*, *wall*, *curb cut*, *traffic light - general (upright)*, *vehicle group*, *signage - store*, *ground*, *dynamic*, *traffic light - pedestrians*, and 96 more.

Images in the Mapillary Vistas dataset have pixel-level instance segmentation annotations. Due to the nature of the instance segmentation task, it can be automatically transformed into a semantic segmentation (only one mask for every class) or object detection (bounding boxes for every object) tasks. There are 5000 (20% of the total) unlabeled images (i.e. without annotations). There are 3 splits in the dataset: *training* (18000 images), *testing* (5000 images), and *validation* (2000 images). Alternatively, the dataset could be split into 8 root-level classes: ***object*** (1124545 objects), ***construction*** (270803 objects), ***void*** (141485 objects), ***marking*** (137680 objects), ***nature*** (121753 objects), ***human*** (70856 objects), ***marking-only*** (3701 objects), and ***animal*** (2069 objects), or into 15 macro-level classes: ***support*** (393381 objects), ***vehicle*** (191281 objects), ***traffic-sign*** (170912 objects), ***barrier*** (131699 objects), ***flat*** (102671 objects), ***sign*** (86497 objects), ***continuous*** (81843 objects), ***traffic-light*** (79512 objects), ***person*** (62531 objects), ***discrete*** (59538 objects), ***structure*** (36433 objects), ***arrow*** (9948 objects), ***rider*** (8325 objects), ***hatched*** (2932 objects), and ***symbol*** (2565 objects). Explore them in supervisely advanced labeling tool. The dataset was released in 2020 by the Mapillary, Sweden.

Here is a visualized example for randomly selected sample classes:

[Dataset classes](https://github.com/dataset-ninja/mapillary-vistas-dataset/raw/main/visualizations/classes_preview.webm)
